README.md, before:


<a id="readme-top"></a>
<!-- PROJECT SHIELDS -->
<!--
*** I'm using markdown "reference style" links for readability.
*** Reference links are enclosed in brackets [ ] instead of parentheses ( ).
*** See the bottom of this document for the declaration of the reference variables
*** for contributors-url, forks-url, etc. This is an optional, concise syntax you may use.
*** https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links
-->
[![Contributors][contributors-shield]][contributors-url]
[![Forks][forks-shield]][forks-url]
[![Stargazers][stars-shield]][stars-url]
[![Issues][issues-shield]][issues-url]
[![MIT License][license-shield]][license-url]



<!-- PROJECT LOGO -->
<br />
<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary">
    <img src="images/logo.png" alt="Logo" width="80" height="80">
  </a>

<h3 align="center">Sanctuary</h3>

  <p align="center">
    Sanctuary is an open source server emulator for Free Realms built from scratch written in C#.
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary/wiki"><strong>Explore the docs »</strong></a>
    <br />
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary">View Demo</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary/issues/new?labels=bug&template=bug-report---.md">Report Bug</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary/issues/new?labels=enhancement&template=feature-request---.md">Request Feature</a>
  </p>
</div>



<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li>
      <a href="#about-the-project">About The Project</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#built-with">Built With</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#prerequisites">Prerequisites</a></li>
        <li><a href="#installation">Installation</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#usage">Usage</a></li>
    <li><a href="#roadmap">Roadmap</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contributing">Contributing</a></li>
    <li><a href="#license">License</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contact">Contact</a></li>
    <li><a href="#acknowledgments">Acknowledgments</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>



<!-- ABOUT THE PROJECT -->
## About The Project

[![Product Name Screen Shot][product-screenshot]](https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



### Built With

* [![CSharp][CSharp]][CSharp-url]

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- GETTING STARTED -->
## Getting Started

This repository only contains the **server emulator** for Free Realms. To play the game, you must also have a **Free Realms client**. You can download the client using the **OSFR Launcher** available here: [OSFR Launcher](https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/OSFR-Launcher).

### Prerequisites

Before you can use this software, ensure you have the following installed:

- **Visual Studio 2022**  
  Make sure to include the **.NET Framework development workload** during installation.

### Release

1. Clone the repo
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary.git
   ```
2. Build the solution for `Sanctuary.Core` for `Release`
3. Create a file named `database.json` in the `Release` folder located within the new `bin` folder
4. Paste the following
   ```sh
    {
    "Database": {
        "Provider": "Sqlite",
        "ConnectionString": "Data Source=D:\\Games\\Free Realms\\sanctuary.db;"
    }
   ```
5. Launch `Sanctuary.Login`, `Sanctuary.Gateway`
6. Connect to the client

**_IMPORTANT:_** Update the Data Source file path (D:\\Games\\Free Realms\\sanctuary.db) to match the location where your database files are stored.

**_NOTE:_** The following user should already exist, but if not then implement one with the following credentials:

```sh
1	admin	admin	EXmdPd5dbAcs58vZ0iCcPRtJkGdMePL2	10	0	1	1	2024-06-22 13:51:13.2736902+01:00	2024-07-14 01:57:45.8765645+00:00
```

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Debug

1. Right-Click **'Manage User Secrets'** for the following projects:
   - `Sanctuary.Gateway`
   - `Sanctuary.Login`
   - `Sanctuary.Database`

2. Copy and paste the following configuration for **SQLite** into the secrets editor:

   ```json
   {
     "Database": {
       "Provider": "Sqlite",
       "ConnectionString": "Data Source=D:\\Games\\Free Realms\\sanctuary.db;"
     }
   }
3. Launch `Sanctuary.Login`, `Sanctuary.Gateway`
4. Connect to the client

**_IMPORTANT:_** Update the Data Source file path (D:\\Games\\Free Realms\\sanctuary.db) to match the location where your database files are stored.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- USAGE EXAMPLES -->
## Usage

To spawn an npc ```/npc spawn <NameId> <ModelId> [TextureAlias]``` TextureAlias is optional

_For more examples, please refer to the [Documentation](https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary/wiki)_

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- ROADMAP -->
## Roadmap

- [ ] Feature 1
- [ ] Feature 2
- [ ] Feature 3
    - [ ] Nested Feature

See the [open issues](https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary/issues) for a full list of proposed features (and known issues).

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- CONTRIBUTING -->
## Contributing

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**.

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request. You can also simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".
Don't forget to give the project a star! Thanks again!

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Top contributors:

<a href="https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary" alt="contrib.rocks image" />
</a>



<!-- LICENSE -->
<!-- ## License

Distributed under the MIT License. See `LICENSE.txt` for more information.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p> -->



<!-- CONTACT -->
<!-- ## Contact

Your Name - [@twitter_handle](https://twitter.com/twitter_handle) - email@email_client.com

Project Link: [https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary](https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p> -->



<!-- ACKNOWLEDGMENTS -->
## Acknowledgments

* []()
* []()
* []()

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- MARKDOWN LINKS & IMAGES -->
<!-- https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links -->
[contributors-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary.svg?style=for-the-badge
[contributors-url]: https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary/graphs/contributors
[forks-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/forks/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forks-url]: https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary/network/members
[stars-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary.svg?style=for-the-badge
[stars-url]: https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary/stargazers
[issues-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary.svg?style=for-the-badge
[issues-url]: https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary/issues
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary.svg?style=for-the-badge
[license-url]: https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary/blob/master/LICENSE.txt
[linkedin-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/-LinkedIn-black.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&colorB=555
[linkedin-url]: https://linkedin.com/in/linkedin_username
[product-screenshot]: images/screenshot.png
[CSharp]: https://img.shields.io/badge/csharp-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=csharp&logoColor=white
[CSharp-url]: https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/languages/csharp

Commit message:

Cleaned the Readme and added Docker Compose

README.md, after:


<a id="readme-top"></a>
<!-- PROJECT SHIELDS -->
<!--
*** I'm using markdown "reference style" links for readability.
*** Reference links are enclosed in brackets [ ] instead of parentheses ( ).
*** See the bottom of this document for the declaration of the reference variables
*** for contributors-url, forks-url, etc. This is an optional, concise syntax you may use.
*** https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links
-->
[![Contributors][contributors-shield]][contributors-url]
[![Forks][forks-shield]][forks-url]
[![Stargazers][stars-shield]][stars-url]
[![Issues][issues-shield]][issues-url]
[![MIT License][license-shield]][license-url]



<!-- PROJECT LOGO -->
<br />
<div align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary">
    <img src="images/logo.png" alt="Logo" width="80" height="80">
  </a>

<h3 align="center">Sanctuary</h3>

  <p align="center">
    Sanctuary is an open source server emulator for Free Realms built from scratch written in C#.
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary/wiki"><strong>Explore the docs »</strong></a>
    <br />
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary">View Demo</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary/issues/new?labels=bug&template=bug-report---.md">Report Bug</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary/issues/new?labels=enhancement&template=feature-request---.md">Request Feature</a>
  </p>
</div>



<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li>
      <a href="#about-the-project">About The Project</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#built-with">Built With</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#prerequisites">Prerequisites</a></li>
        <li><a href="#installation">Installation</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#usage">Usage</a></li>
    <li><a href="#roadmap">Roadmap</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contributing">Contributing</a></li>
    <li><a href="#license">License</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contact">Contact</a></li>
    <li><a href="#acknowledgments">Acknowledgments</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>



<!-- ABOUT THE PROJECT -->
## About The Project

[![Product Name Screen Shot][product-screenshot]](https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



### Built With

* [![CSharp][CSharp]][CSharp-url]

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- GETTING STARTED -->
## Getting Started

This repository only contains the **server emulator** for Free Realms. To play the game, you must also have a **Free Realms client**. You can download the client using the **OSFR Launcher** available here: [OSFR Launcher](https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/OSFR-Launcher).

### Prerequisites

Before you can use this software, ensure you have the following installed:

- **Visual Studio 2022**  
  Make sure to include the **.NET Framework development workload** during installation.

### Release

1. Clone the repo
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary.git
   ```
2. Build the solution for `Sanctuary.Core` for `Release`
3. Create a file named `database.json` in the `Release` folder located within the new `bin` folder
4. Paste the following
   ```json
    {
    "Database": {
        "Provider": "Sqlite",
        "ConnectionString": "Data Source=D:\\Games\\Free Realms\\sanctuary.db;"
    }
   ```
5. Launch `Sanctuary.Login`, `Sanctuary.Gateway`
6. Connect to the client

**_IMPORTANT:_** Update the Data Source file path (D:\\Games\\Free Realms\\sanctuary.db) to match the location where your database files are stored.

**_NOTE:_** The following user should already exist, but if not then implement one with the following credentials:

```sh
1	admin	admin	EXmdPd5dbAcs58vZ0iCcPRtJkGdMePL2	10	0	1	1	2024-06-22 13:51:13.2736902+01:00	2024-07-14 01:57:45.8765645+00:00
```

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Debug

1. Clone the repo
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary.git
   ```
2. Build the solution for `Sanctuary.Core` for `Debug`
3. Right-Click **'Manage User Secrets'** for the following projects:
   - `Sanctuary.Gateway`
   - `Sanctuary.Login`
   - `Sanctuary.Database`

4. Copy and paste the following configuration for **SQLite** into the secrets editor:

   ```json
   {
     "Database": {
       "Provider": "Sqlite",
       "ConnectionString": "Data Source=D:\\Games\\Free Realms\\sanctuary.db;"
     }
   }
5. Launch `Sanctuary.Login`, `Sanctuary.Gateway`
6. Connect to the client

**_IMPORTANT:_** Update the Data Source file path (D:\\Games\\Free Realms\\sanctuary.db) to match the location where your database files are stored.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Docker Compose

1. Clone the repo
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary.git
   ```
2. Launch `Docker Compose`
3. Connect to the client

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- USAGE EXAMPLES -->
## Usage

To spawn an npc ```/npc spawn <NameId> <ModelId> [TextureAlias]``` TextureAlias is optional

_For more examples, please refer to the [Documentation](https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary/wiki)_

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- ROADMAP -->
## Roadmap

- [ ] Feature 1
- [ ] Feature 2
- [ ] Feature 3
    - [ ] Nested Feature

See the [open issues](https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary/issues) for a full list of proposed features (and known issues).

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- CONTRIBUTING -->
## Contributing

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**.

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request. You can also simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".
Don't forget to give the project a star! Thanks again!

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Top contributors:

<a href="https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary" alt="contrib.rocks image" />
</a>



<!-- LICENSE -->
<!-- ## License

Distributed under the MIT License. See `LICENSE.txt` for more information.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p> -->



<!-- CONTACT -->
<!-- ## Contact

Your Name - [@twitter_handle](https://twitter.com/twitter_handle) - email@email_client.com

Project Link: [https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary](https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p> -->



<!-- ACKNOWLEDGMENTS -->
## Acknowledgments

* []()
* []()
* []()

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- MARKDOWN LINKS & IMAGES -->
<!-- https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links -->
[contributors-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary.svg?style=for-the-badge
[contributors-url]: https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary/graphs/contributors
[forks-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/forks/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forks-url]: https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary/network/members
[stars-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary.svg?style=for-the-badge
[stars-url]: https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary/stargazers
[issues-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary.svg?style=for-the-badge
[issues-url]: https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary/issues
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary.svg?style=for-the-badge
[license-url]: https://github.com/Open-Source-Free-Realms/Sanctuary/blob/master/LICENSE.txt
[linkedin-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/-LinkedIn-black.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&colorB=555
[linkedin-url]: https://linkedin.com/in/linkedin_username
[product-screenshot]: images/screenshot.png
[CSharp]: https://img.shields.io/badge/csharp-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=csharp&logoColor=white
[CSharp-url]: https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/languages/csharp
